Now that we have a much better
understanding of the role of
independence assumptions in PCFGs.
In this segment I'm going to show
you how you can make a much,
much better PCFG without
doing lexicalization.
And so, this was worked those done in the
accurate unlexicalized parsing paper by me
and Dan Klein in 1993.
So first,
what do I mean by unlexicalized PCFG?
What that’s going to mean is that in
general the grammar rules are not
systematically specified down
to the level of lexical items.
So we're not going to be able to
have lexicalized categories like in
a lexicalized PCFG,
like NP stocks or VP routers.
On the other hand, we are going
to be allowed to do things like
parent down [INAUDIBLE] of categories or
to note other things about the [INAUDIBLE]
of categories like saying.
This is a noun phrase that is
a coordinator noun phrase.
To drill down on that just
a teeny bit more, in particular
we wish to make a distinction between
close versus open-class words.
So this a long tradition in
linguistic syntax to make use of
function words as features or
markers for categories and selection.
So in English the Verbs have v and
do act as verbal auxiliaries.
In things like I am running,
he has eaten, and so
it's okay to recognize that those
function words have a special role.
And to treat them specially or
if you have a compliment it's okay
to know whether it's a that compliment
versus an if/whether compliment.
Those kind of conditioning features
are allowed in state splits
because they're fundamentally different
to this idea of marking the semantic
heads of phrases for working out things
like prepositional phrase attachment.
Where really you're using the lexical
heads as a kind of proxy for semantics.
And so those thesis was, is that
a large percent of what you need for
accurate parsing.
And indeed much of what was actually
being captured by lexicalized PCFGs
wasn't actually anything
to do with publistic
dependencies being
captured by content words.
But, it was actually really just these
basic grammatical features like Verb form,
finiteness, presence of a verbal
auxiliary that were well known
from people working out
traditional grammars.
In particular people who'd worked on
feature based grammars for languages.
So the way we went about investigating
this Is that, with the Penn Treebank,
Wall Street Journal we chose a small
development set that we could
do a whole bunch of experiments on.
And that they thoroughly did it
on computers were much slower, so
doing a 100 files of the Wall Street
Journal seemed like it take a long time.
So we just used 20 files of the Wall
Street Journal development section and
we've run on again and again and we'd
make manual state splits in the grammar.
And try and
improve performance by breaking down
wrong independence assumptions.
And so, we have a couple of statistics.
One is our performance level which will be
our usual F1 of label precision recall.
And then, the other one is the size of our
grammar that as we make more state splits,
the grammar will be bigger in terms
of its number of non-terminals.
And if this number gets too big,
that's both dangerous for two reasons.
It will both slow down the power sign.
And we'll stop to get problems with
sparseness because we're not smoothing
the rebites of our PCFG
except down at the lexical level
where we're rewriting those words.
And so, our goal will be to
state-split as sparingly as possible.
So we just want to make a limited number
of state-splits that give the most bang
for the buck in terms of capturing
necessary probabilistic dependencies.
So let's just look at a few
examples of how we did that.
Now motivation was in
part having looked at
what had been done in lexicized pcfgs's.
And it turns out that some of the things
that are being done in the lexicized
pcfg models.
The prominent ones of those days
were Eugene and Mike Collins'.
Didn't actually have anything to do
with content word lexiconization at all.
They had been doing other things.
So one idea was to split up
context free grammar rules which
had long right hand sides So,
you only do limited conditioning on
the other things on the right-hand side.
So, if you have a flat rule, of which
there are lots in the Penn Treebank,
we've already discussed
needing to binarize those.
And there's sort of a straightforward way
of binarization, where at each point.,
you preserve your left context.
And then you have the probabilities
of expanding further.
So now, we're again preserving
our left context and
saying what are the probabilities
of expanding further?
But as you go on you're conditioning on
more and more stuff that might not make
much of a difference because you're also
going to have places in the pen tree bank
where a noun phrase expands as
five proper nouns in a row.
If you have something like crater,
Duluth, investment advancement
committee or Or something like that.
You're going to get five
proper nouns in a row.
And it seems like at some point
you just want to know that
you're expanding a bunch o proper
nouns and how many there were before.
Forehand doesn't matter.
And so, what you can do is get
rid of some of the history
in the same way as we do with language
models, where we markovize them and
say, let's not use the entire
proceeding context.
Let's just use a bit
of proceeding context.
But our proceeding context
now Is in terms of these
categories of what we've seen
previously on the right hand side.
So if we only keep what we're expanding,
and the thing that we saw most recently
on the right hand side, we get rid of
some of the prior conditioning context.
And then,
these two states become the same.
Up grandma will actually
gets smaller again.
So, from this perspective, if you do naive
finalization of those very flat rules,
you actually get a big grammar.
And you pass at about the 73%
number that we've talked about for
a plain vanilla PCFG.
It turns out that if you condition on less
context like only the two
preceding tags or
only the one preceding thing
on the right hand side.
Your grammar gets enormously smaller and
actually it's performance goes up.
So, in particular if you
condition on just the two previous
categories in your expansion
of the right hand side.
Your performance goes up a little bit.
But we had found that we could do
a little bit better than that.
We could condition on sometimes 1
piece of preceding context, and
sometimes 2 bits of preceding context,
depending on how often
you've seen expansions for that category
as to how common this non terminal is.
So that's Horizontal Markovization.
The idea of using parent categories you
can think of as Veritcal Markovization.
So before we were saying, okay,
we're expanding just a verb phrase and
then we could say, well, let's also look
at the thing above that in the tree.
And so
we're then marking that in our category.
So this looking at the thing
above you in the tree
is kind of looking into
a history going upwards.
And you can think of having your
whole history going upwards and
then progressively deleting
out some of that, and
that's a form of Vertical Markovization.
So from this perspective a standard PCFG,
you're just expanding your own category
and you're looking at nothing above you.
So your Vertical Markov Order 1,
which is again at slightly
under 73% performance level.
As Johnson noticed,
that by simply doing nothing else but
also knowing your parent category,
that gives you a lot of value.
So that's pushing up your parsing
numbers by about 4% here.
It turns out that if you put
in grandparents as well,
you can push the numbers up
even a little bit further.
But the problem is that, as you do that,
you start having a bigger and
bigger grammar with more nonterminals.
So the model we used as a basis for
doing more linguistic state splits
was actually again,
to take this in-between parent and
nothing model, where you're using
the parent category most of the time but
not always for
certain very rare non-terminals.
So they're some of
the ones we saw mentioned.
Occasionally there are things
like where the things like
where you have special non-terminals for
fragments and for
reduced relative clause and
things like that occur rarely.
Okay.
So, once we took the vertical and
horizontal Markovization at level 2V,
between 1 and
2, we then get to a PCFG where
our accuracy is 77.8% F1 and
the number of non-terminals we
have in the grammar is now 7.5K.
And that'll be the basis for introducing
some furthermore linguistic state splits.
Okay, well what other problems do the
independent assumptions of PCFGs cause?
An easy way to find them
is to just run your PCFG,
see where it makes pass errors
on your development set and
then scratch your head and think,
why is it choosing the wrong role here?
What information could I encode into
the non-terminals that cause
it to stop doing that?
And so, here's an example of this.
So, you find in a basic PCFG
that unary roles are used
too often because they make it easy
to change one category into another.
So if you have a high category role here,
like a verb phrase going to and
verb ending in i-n-g and
a noun phase, it's going to want to use
it and so it finds that it can just
change a sentence into a verb phrase
with fairly high probability.
That's a high probability unary role and
so it will use it and do that.
But there's a problem here which
is that this unary rewrite
isn't appropriate for
this higher level rule.
That this higher level rule is
expecting here to have a finite
sentence with a subject, and so therefore,
it shouldn't then expand as a unary role.
So the way we can capture
that is by saying, well,
let's mark the unary rewrites
in the training data.
Whenever there's a unary rule applied,
we'll just stick unary on
the parent category so we know the kinds
of places that unary rewrites occur.
And then at that point, it'll decide on
at parsing time, this isn't a place that
unary rewrites occur and so it'll choose
a different structure for the sentence.
It'll decide to choose this
structure where this is actually
a modifier phrase, modifying the noun
phrase, and that's the right answer.
And so just making this little change here
will immediately already move our
parsing numbers up by a half a percent.
So let's keep going.
Another problem of the independence
assumptions is that in various places,
the part of speech tags are too coarse.
One of the worst examples of that is with
the tag IN in the pink treebank tags set.
So that's used for
all three of the sentential
complementizers of sentence complements.
Words like that, whether, and if, or
subordinating conjunctions like while and
after, and for true propositions,
words like in, of, and to.
Well, that causes wrong parsers, so here's
an example of how it causes a wrong parse.
So here we have this sentential
complement with advertising works,
where we should have be
a sentence advertising works.
But instead, what it's chosen to do
is just give a regular prepositional
phrase analysis despite the fact
that the preposition here is if,
which is not really a true preposition.
It's one of these
sentential complementizers.
Okay, well, the way to deal with this
is to split this IN tag here and
have different kinds of words here.
So if we say that if you have a noun
phrase under your preposition,
then what we want is
the kind of IN that appears
with a noun phrase as its complement.
Well, then what's going to happen
is we're going to learn that if
is not an example of that.
If is instead an example of
the kind of IN that appears
with the sentential
complement because it appears
in this SBAR construction
that we have here.
And so that means the parser is then
going to choose a different and
correct construction here.
It's going to say that this part
here is an SBAR with an s in it.
Splitting the I intake in
this way is a big change and
by itself it gives you an extra
2% in parsing accuracy but
we can keep on and do more of the same.
So let's just look at a couple
of other examples of that.
So sometimes we also want to
refine phrasal categories.
So if you have a verb phrase,
it makes a fair bit of
a difference knowing what
kind of a verb phrase it is.
Is it a finite verb or
is it a non-finite or infinitive verb?
And one way that you can capture
that is by knowing what the part
of speech tag of the verb is because this
here is a finite tag for the verb and
this here is an infinitive
non-finite tag for the verb.
And so we can represent that information
also on the verb phrase category.
And if we do that we will
find that this structure
is bad because although
the verb is can take
VP complements, it won't take infinitive,
vr infinitive VB compliments like panic.
Instead, it's going to take
things like participial for
the progressives, like she is running or
things like that.
And so when we annotate that
extra information, the poss again
know that this isn't a good structure,
and it will choose a different structure.
And so here it's choosing to make
panic buying a noun phrase correctly.
Okay, so that's the idea of
splitting verb-phrase categories.
And we mentioned earlier why we
wanted to split off possessive
noun phrase categories.
Both of those are worth quite
a bit in pausing accuracy.
So we gain almost a percent
from the possessives and
we gain over 2% by knowing what kind
of verb phrase we're dealing with.
There's one other category of splits that
we introduced and that is at somehow.
We want to know something about attachment
sites for prepositional phrases.
Even though we're not doing lexical
conditioning, we want to have some kind of
an idea as to do prepositional phrases
tend to attach low or tend to attach high.
And we have put in some features
that can capture that, so
we mark whether any phrase contains
a verb, that tends to capture
whether it's already something big and
sentence sized.
And also mark for
noun phrases whether they've already
had things attached to them.
Or whether there's still a base noun phase
that hasn't had anything attached to them.
And these ideas also push up
the performance numbers a little.
Indeed on the development set,
we've now gone up to 87 F1.
So at the end of the day,
what we've constructed here is
that we transform the training
data with manual rules done
as state splits to produce this
richer set of non-terminals here.
A verb phrase, that's under an S category.
It has a finite verb inert, and
it's a phrase that contains a verb.
And so these are our categories.
We then build a straightforward PCFG
with those categories and paths.
How well do we do?
Well, the answer is that
this unlexicalized PCFG can
suddenly actually do rather well.
So these are the results.
So These were two of the earliest
lexicalized PCFG models and
they got almost 85 and 86%.
And here we have this hand
built on lexicalized PCFG and
it's actually doing a little
bit better than those.
It isn't doing quite as well as the model
of Charniak that I showed earlier or
indeed Collins's slightly later model.
These ones were getting you know
a little bit more, 87, 88%.
But any rate,
that shows you that if we're considering,
we started off at about 72.7 for
our plain PCFG.
And then if we look at what
they've mileage to get up to here,
it then looks like well,
no about 13 to 14%
of the mileage is coming from these ideas.
Like knowing more about context,
parent annotation,
refining critical categories, knowing
that you have possessive down phrases,
knowing about the type of phrases,
participial and infinitive,
infinite verb phrases and
the amount of these at a models we're
capturing from having true
lexicalization was really rather small.
So at somewhere between 1% and 3%.
And so that changed the orientation
somewhat as to better understanding
what is and isn't important in being
able to choose the right parses.
Okay, so that showed that although
the idea of lexicalization is
clearly important for capturing
certain kinds of parsing decisions,
such as prepositional phrase attachments,
you can do a lot with
just a little bit of linguistic
modeling rather than actually going
the whole way of having this
massive space of lexicalized PCFGs.
And the kind of modeling that you're doing
there is actually a kind that was very
familiar from work on feature based and
unification based models that have been
explored in linguistics in the 1980s and
1990s.